Add matter integration (#24353)
home-assistant/home-assistant.github.io: source/_integrations/matter.md

---
title: Matter
description: Instructions on how to integrate Matter with Home Assistant.
ha_category:

>   - Light

Author: ```suggestion
  - Binary Sensor
  - Light
  - Sensor
  - Switch
```

ha_release: '2022.12'
ha_iot_class: Local Push
ha_config_flow: true
ha_codeowners:

>   - '@MartinHjelmare'

Author: ```suggestion
  - '@marcelveldt'
  - '@MartinHjelmare'
```

ha_domain: matter
ha_platforms:

>   - light

Author: ```suggestion
  - binary_sensor
  - light
  - sensor
  - switch
```

---
title: Matter
description: Instructions on how to integrate Matter with Home Assistant.

> featured: true

Author: ```suggestion
```

ha_category:
  - Light

> ha_release: '2022.11'

Author: ```suggestion
ha_release: '2022.12'
```

ha_iot_class: Local Push
ha_config_flow: true
ha_codeowners:
  - '@MartinHjelmare'
ha_domain: matter
ha_platforms:
  - light
ha_integration_type: integration
---

> This integration allows you to control a Matter network.

Reviewer: I'd rephrase this a bit so it will be about controlling Matter devices and not a Matter network.

Author: ```suggestion
This integration allows you to communicate with and control Matter devices.
```

---
title: Matter
description: Instructions on how to integrate Matter with Home Assistant.
ha_category:
  - Binary Sensor
  - Light
  - Sensor
  - Switch
ha_release: '2022.12'
ha_iot_class: Local Push
ha_config_flow: true
ha_codeowners:
  - '@marcelveldt'
  - '@MartinHjelmare'
ha_domain: matter
ha_platforms:
  - binary_sensor
  - light
  - sensor
  - switch
ha_integration_type: integration
---

> This integration allows you to communicate with and control Matter devices.

Reviewer: Do we want to mention the dependency on the Matter server add-on ?
Basically Matter is now only available for HAOS users.

Author: I think we should mention the matter server dependency. If you can't run the add-on you can run the server some other way, if you know how. Ie, I think we can add a section for advanced installation instructions similar like we have for Z-Wave JS.

Reviewer: OK, hold on, I'll write something down based on zwave_js

> This integration allows you to communicate with and control Matter devices.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This integration allows you to communicate with and control Matter devices on your local WiFi or Thread network.

<p class='note'>
Both Matter and the implementation within Home Assistant are in early (v1) state and probably features are missing or could be improved.
</p>
```

> {% include integrations/config_flow.md %}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
{% include integrations/config_flow.md %}

If you run Home Assistant Container, Home Assistant Core, or you don’t want to use the built-in Matter Server add-on, please see the [advanced installation instructions](https://www.home-assistant.io/integrations/matter/#advanced-installation-instructions).

## Advanced installation instructions

If you are using Home Assistant Container, Home Assistant Core, or you don't want to use the built-in Matter Server add-on, you will need to run the Matter server yourself, to which the Matter integration will connect.

### Running [Matter Server](https://github.com/home-assistant-libs/python-matter-server).

This application provides the connection between your Matter network (called Fabric in technical terms) and Home Assistant. The Home Assistant Matter integration connects to this server via a websocket connection. You need to run this Matter server before you can use the integration.

There are multiple ways to run this server:

**Option 1: The official MatterServer add-on, as described above**

_This option is only available for Home Assistant OS (the recommended installation type) and Home Assistant Supervised installations._

**Option 2: Run the Matter server yourself**

This option is considered a very advanced setup and only for experienced users. You can find instructions on how to run the Matter server here: https://github.com/home-assistant-libs/python-matter-server

```

---
title: Matter
description: Instructions on how to integrate Matter with Home Assistant.
ha_category:
  - Binary Sensor
  - Light
  - Sensor
  - Switch
ha_release: '2022.12'
ha_iot_class: Local Push
ha_config_flow: true
ha_codeowners:
  - '@marcelveldt'
  - '@MartinHjelmare'
ha_domain: matter
ha_platforms:
  - binary_sensor
  - light
  - sensor
  - switch
ha_integration_type: integration
---

This integration allows you to communicate with and control Matter devices on your local WiFi or Thread network.

<p class='note'>

> Both Matter and the implementation within Home Assistant are in early (v1) state and probably features are missing or could be improved.

Author: ```suggestion
Both Matter and the implementation within Home Assistant are in early (v1) state and features may be missing or could be improved.
```

</p>

{% include integrations/config_flow.md %}

> If you run Home Assistant Container, Home Assistant Core, or you don’t want to use the built-in Matter Server add-on, please see the [advanced installation instructions](https://www.home-assistant.io/integrations/matter/#advanced-installation-instructions).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If you run Home Assistant Container, Home Assistant Core, or you don’t want to use the built-in Matter Server add-on, please see the [advanced installation instructions](#advanced-installation-instructions).
```

## Advanced installation instructions

> If you are using Home Assistant Container, Home Assistant Core, or you don't want to use the built-in Matter Server add-on, you will need to run the Matter server yourself, to which the Matter integration will connect.

Author: ```suggestion
If you are using Home Assistant Container, Home Assistant Core, or you don't want to use the built-in Matter Server add-on, you will need to run the Matter Server yourself, to which the Matter integration will connect.
```

> ### Running [Matter Server](https://github.com/home-assistant-libs/python-matter-server)

Author: ```suggestion
### Running Matter Server
```

Author: The link interferes with the anchor, it seems.

> ### Running [Matter Server](https://github.com/home-assistant-libs/python-matter-server).

Author: ```suggestion
### Running [Matter Server](https://github.com/home-assistant-libs/python-matter-server)
```

This application provides the connection between your Matter network (called Fabric in technical terms) and Home Assistant. The Home Assistant Matter integration connects to this server via a websocket connection. You need to run the Matter Server before you can use the integration.

There are multiple ways to run the server:

> **Option 1: The official MatterServer add-on, as described above**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Option 1: The official Matter Server add-on, as described above**
```

> This application provides the connection between your Matter network (called Fabric in technical terms) and Home Assistant. The Home Assistant Matter integration connects to this server via a websocket connection. You need to run this Matter server before you can use the integration.

Author: ```suggestion
This application provides the connection between your Matter network (called Fabric in technical terms) and Home Assistant. The Home Assistant Matter integration connects to this server via a websocket connection. You need to run the Matter Server before you can use the integration.
```

> There are multiple ways to run this server:

Author: ```suggestion
There are multiple ways to run the server:
```

_This option is only available for Home Assistant OS (the recommended installation type) and Home Assistant Supervised installations._

**Option 2: Run the Matter server yourself**

> This option is considered a very advanced setup and only for experienced users. You can find instructions on how to run the Matter server here: https://github.com/home-assistant-libs/python-matter-server

Author: ```suggestion
This option is considered a very advanced setup and only for experienced users. You can find instructions on how to run the Matter Server here: https://github.com/home-assistant-libs/python-matter-server
```

Author: ```suggestion
This option is considered a very advanced setup and only for experienced users. You can find instructions on how to run the Matter Server in the [project repository](https://github.com/home-assistant-libs/python-matter-server).
```

> This option is considered a very advanced setup and only for experienced users. You can find instructions on how to run the Matter server here: https://github.com/home-assistant-libs/python-matter-server

Reviewer 2: Avoid bare URLs, link the text instead.
